---
title: "What is an Exception?"
linkTitle: "What is an Exception?"
description: "This page describes the concept of an Exception"
weight: 1
---

# {{< param title >}}

## Summary

An Exception is an event that occurs during the execution of a [flow][Flows] that disrupts the standard process of the [flow][Flows] execution.

Exceptions can be raised in different ways:

- Misconfiguration in a block

- Unexpected responses from a third-party system

- Environmental issues

- Intentionally thrown with [Flow][Flows] logic. I.e. [Throwing Exceptions][]

Exceptions (sometimes referred to as "Errors") can be handled in different ways depending on how the exception was raised. See [Handling Exceptions][] for more detail on how to handle exceptions.

## Anatomy of an Exception

An Exception is comprised of the following elements:

| Element | Notes | Example |
|---------|---------|---------|
|Exception Name | Generated name based on the block that raised the exception | `Convert Date Time To Text Exception` |
| Exception Type | Machine parsable [Exception Message](#exception-message) | `InvalidPropertyValueException`
| [Exception Message](#exception-message) | Human readable [Exception Message](#exception-message) | `The value of the property could not be evaluated.`
| Inner Exception | More detailed information for the exception | `"Exception Type":"KeyNotFoundException","Message":"The given key 'Datetime' was not present in the dictionary."`|
| [Help Link](#help-links) | Help link for the relevant information in the Cortex Product Portal, External Reference Documentation, or a Custom generated URL | `https://v2022.docs.cortex-ia.com/docs/reference/exceptions/flows/blocks/invalid-property-value-exception` |

### Exception Message

The Exception Message contains releveant information to the exception. This typically includes the cause of the exception, possible resolutions, and any related information. The exact message depends on the Exception being raised. See [Exceptions][] for reference information on different Exceptions that can be raised during flow executions.

### Help Links

Most Exception Messages raised will include one or more Help Links. These links will direct to related material for the Exception to aid with troubleshooting and resolution of the exception.

Within Cortex, there are three types of Help Links: [Cortex](#cortex), [External](#external), and [Custom](#custom).

#### Cortex

Cortex Help Links direct to related material within the Cortex Product Portal. This documentation is written and maintained by Cortex and contains information directly related to the Cortex product.

#### External

External Help Links direct to externally hosted related material that supports an Exception or Cortex Product Portal documents. This documentation is not written maintained by Cortex, and is subject to change without warning.

#### Custom

Custom Help Links are generated by flow developers during the design and development of flows. These Help Links are configured in the [Throw New Exception][] block, and can link to any resource applicable to the exception. These links are not generated, maintained, or controlled by Cortex.

## Remarks

### Known Limitations

#### Return Characters

Return characters within an exception are currently not supported. Any return characters will be represented with `\r\n`.

#### Copying Exception Text

The Exeception Viewer currently does not support traditional copy and paste functionality for recording exceptions. A workaround is to highlight the text, then click and drag into another text editor.

## See Also

### Related Concepts

- [Handling Exceptions][]
- [Throwing Exceptions][]
- [Flows][]
- [Executions][]

### Related Data Types

- [Exception Data Types][]

### Related Blocks

- [Handle Block Exception][]
- [Throw New Exception][]

[Handle Block Exception]: {{< url "Cortex.Reference.Blocks.Exceptions.HandleBlock.MainDoc" >}}
[Handling Exceptions]: {{< url "Cortex.Reference.Concepts.Fundamentals.Exceptions.HandlingExceptions.MainDoc" >}}
[Executions]: {{< url "Cortex.Reference.Concepts.Fundamentals.DevelopingFlows.Executions.MainDoc" >}}
[Flows]: {{< url "Cortex.Reference.Concepts.Fundamentals.DevelopingFlows.Flows.WhatIsAFlow.MainDoc" >}}
[Throw New Exception]: {{< url "Cortex.Reference.Blocks.Exceptions.ThrowException.ThrowNewFlowException.MainDoc" >}}
[Throwing Exceptions]: {{< url "Cortex.Reference.Concepts.Fundamentals.Exceptions.ThrowingExceptions.MainDoc" >}}
[Exceptions]: {{< url "Cortex.Reference.Exceptions.MainDoc" >}}
[Exception Data Types]: {{< url "Cortex.Reference.DataTypes.MostCommon.Exceptions" >}}
